abdicate
to give up formally (a high office, authority, throne, etc.)
"The king plans to abdicate his throne."

abdominal
lower part of the trunk of the human body; in, on or for the abdomen
"The abdominal bandage seemed too tight."

aberrant
abnormal or deviant
"Her rude, aberrant behavior was quite a shock."

abrogate
to cancel or repeal by authority
"Congress must abrogate the new tax law."

acetylene
a colorless, poisonous, highly flammable gaseous hydrocarbon
"This most brilliant of the illuminating gases is acetylene."

acrimonious
stinging, caustic
"Those acrimonious remarks will make you unpopular."

acquittal
discharge of duty; being set free by the court
"From lack of evidence submitted, the judge decreed an acquittal."

adolescence
the time of life between puberty and maturity; youth
"During adolescence, one is often uncertain."

aesthetic
sensitive to art and beauty
"In order to help develop their children's aesthetic tastes, many family trips to art galleries were planned."

affinity
close relationship
"Fish have an affinity with water."

agglomeration
a jumbled heap, mass, etc.
"The agglomeration of articles for the rummage sale was staggering."

aghast
feeling great horror or dismay
"Upon seeing the tornado's destruction, he was aghast."

aluminum
most abundant metal element in the Earth's crust
"Don't put aluminum foil in the microwave."

ambiguous
not clear
"The treaty is very ambiguous."

anachronism
anything that is or seems to be out of its proper time in history
"A black and white television is an anachronism today."

anathema
a thing or person greatly detested
"Censorship is anathema to Americans."

anonymous
no name known or acknowledged; name withheld
"The poem read was written by an anonymous poet."

antiquated
no longer used or useful; obsolete
"The old cabin contained some antiquated relics of the olden days."

antithesis
the direct opposite
"Love is the antithesis of hate."

apocryphal
spurious; counterfeit
"The apocryphal memories of the countess cannot be admitted as evidence."

apostle
the first advocate of a view point or reform
"The student body president was an apostle for year-round school."

apparition
a strange figure appearing suddenly and thought to be a ghost
"After hearing the spooky story, the children thought they saw an apparition."

appropriate
to take for one's own, often without right
"I wish my roommate would not appropriate my clothes."

aqueduct
large pipe made for bringing water from a distant source
"The aqueduct provided the farmers with the much needed water for crops."

archetype
the perfect example of a type or group
"Mickey Mouse is the archetype for cartoon characters."

ascension
the act of ascending
"We watched the balloon's ascension into the clouds."

asceticism
religious doctrine where self-denial is practiced to reach a higher spiritual state
"Trappist monks practice asceticism."

assuage
sooth, ease
"Saying I'm sorry is a way to assuage your guilt ."

atrophy
a wasting away of body tissue, organ, or the failure of an organ or part to grow or develop, as because of insufficient nutrition
"Without proper nutrition, the muscles will atrophy."

awkward
not graceful, clumsy
"My walk was very awkward right after my cast was removed."

baccalaureate
an address or sermon delivered to a graduating class at commencement
"The graduating seniors and their families will attend the baccalaureate."

bailiwick
one's particular area of authority, activity, interest
"The coach's bailiwick is tennis."

balustrade
a railing
"The balustrade around the porch was made of cedar."

barrage
a heavy, prolonged attack of words, blows
"Suddenly the speaker was under a barrage of questions."

battalion
a large group of soldiers arrayed for battle; any large group joined in some activity
"He had command of a battalion during World War II."

biennial
happening every two years
"The reunion is held on a biennial basis."

bilingual
of or in two languages; capable of using two languages with equal skill
"He was offered the position because he was bilingual in English and Spanish."

bizarre
marked by extreme contrasts and incongruities of color, design, or style
"Her purple and orange hair was bizarre."

boisterous
loud, rowdy
"The security officer had to quiet the boisterous group."

boulevard
a broad often landscaped thoroughfare
"Sometimes using the boulevard is faster than taking the freeway."

broccoli
green vegetable high in vitamins
"The consumption of broccoli has increased in recent years."

buoyancy
the tendency of a body to float in a fluid
"Filling the raft with more air will increase its buoyancy."

calligraphy
beautiful handwriting; penmanship
"Calligraphy is an art - a talent to be thankful for."

camaraderie
loyalty and warm, friendly feeling among comrades
"Within the Girl Scout troop, there was great camaraderie."

camouflage
disguise or concealment of this kind
"The tanks' camouflage prevented enemy planes from seeing them."

capitulation
statement of the main parts of a subject; conditional surrender
"Their leader decided that capitulation was best."

carcinogen
cancer causing
"Scientists seem to discover a new carcinogen every day."

carburetor
a device in which air is mixed with gasoline spray to make an explosive mixture in an internal combustion engine
"The carburetor in the truck had to be replaced."

carnivorous
meat-eating
"The lion is a carnivorous animal."

cataclysm
any great upheaval that causes sudden and violent changes
"The weakened government could not withstand another cataclysm."

catastrophe
calamity
"The Northridge Earthquake was a catastrophe."

centrifugal
radiating or departing from the center
"The road was banked to counteract the centrifugal force."

chamois
a soft leather made from the hide of a chamois, deer or sheep
"The gloves were made of chamois leather."

chandelier
lighting fixture hanging from a ceiling, with branches for candles or bulbs
"The chandelier swayed, and we hurried out from under it."

chaotic
completely confused or disordered condition
"The era of the Hundred Years' War was very chaotic."

charlatan
fake
"The phony scientist was a charlatan."

chimerical
imaginary
"Her fears are as chimerical as the hallucinations of insanity."

chivalry
the noble qualities a medieval knight was supposed to have; courage, honor and readiness to help the weak, and to protect women
"We loved his chivalry, seemingly borrowed from the knights of old."

chromosome
one of the DNA containing bodies in a cell nucleus
"This particular gene is found at the end of chromosome 23."

cinematographer
a motion-picture cameraman
"Cecil B. DeMille was a great cinematographer."

circumference
a line that goes around or encloses a circle
"When drawing a snowman, the head usually has a smaller circumference than the body."

clairvoyance
keen perception or insight
"His clairvoyance with a crystal ball was amazing."

clique
a small, exclusive group of people
"She refused to join the clique of students."

coercive
of coercion or tending to coerce
"During the American Revolution, the colonists fought against the coercive government of Great Britain."

colleague
associate in office
"His colleague is going to attend the same workshop."

colloquial
conversational
"The politician's colloquial language endeared him to small town voters."

commingle
to mingle together; intermix, blend
"The separate tribes began to commingle through marriage."

compassionate
feeling or showing compassion
"The compassionate nurse listened to the patient's tale."

condolence
expression of sympathy with another in grief
"A note of condolence is appropriate at time of death."

conjecture
an inference, theory, or prediction based on guesswork; guess
"After hearing the facts, she knew that her conjecture was wrong."

connoisseur
a person who has expert knowledge and keen discrimination in some field, especially in the fine arts or in matters of taste
"His discerning taste buds made him a connoisseur of good wine."

consensus
an opinion held by all or most
"The consensus of party professionals was sought."

contemptuous
full of contempt; scornful; disdainful
"The speaker was very contemptuous of the hecklers."

convoluted
extremely involved; intricate
"The convoluted plot was difficult to understand."

correspondence
a communication by exchange of letters
"Please file this correspondence alphabetically."

counterfeit
to imitate or copy, especially with intent to deceive
"There is a way to check if a bill is counterfeit."

critique
the act or art of criticizing; criticism
"The director did not like the critique of his movie."

croissant
a crescent roll
"A hot, buttery croissant was enjoyed by each one attending the festive brunch."

crucifixion
a crucifying or being crucified
"The punishment of crucifixion was practiced in ancient times."

debacle
an overwhelming defeat or rout
"His resignation from power caused the greatest debacle in the history of his country."

decelerate
to reduce speed; slow down
"The driver began to decelerate as he rounded the bend."

deciduous
shedding leaves annually
"The fall colors on the deciduous trees are beautiful."

delicatessen
a shop where sandwich items meats and cheeses are sold
"Let's stop at the delicatessen to pick up things for our picnic."

depressant
lowering the rate of muscular or nervous activity; to sadden or lower
"The medicine was given as a depressant."

derrick
large apparatus for lifting and moving heavy objects; tall tapering framework over an oil well
"The workmen used a derrick to take the piano up to the 7 th floor."

designate
to point or mark out; specify; appoint
"I will designate one of my friends to chair this committee."

dexterity
skill in using one's mind; cleverness
"Her mental dexterity was amazing."

dialysis
the separation of crystalloids from colloids as the elimination of impurities from the blood during kidney failure
"One of our child movie stars has to be hospitalized for dialysis."

dichotomy
division into two (contrasting) halves, pairs of sets
"Reconciling the dichotomy between public and private interests is a difficult job."

differentiate
distinguish between
"The shopper tried to differentiate between the two sweaters."

dilapidated
broken down; shabby and neglected
"We bought a dilapidated house and tried to repair it."

dilemma
predicament; a situation in which one must choose between alternatives
"His dilemma was in having to decide on which color paint to use."

disguise
to change the manner or appearance of in order to prevent recognition
"I will need a mask to disguise myself for the Halloween Party."

disproportionate
not in proportion
"The harsh punishment was disproportionate to the infraction."

disseminate
to scatter seed; to sow widely; spread abroad
"When the dandelion becomes that feathery little puffball, the breezes cause it to disseminate."

dissertation
a formal and lengthy discourse or treatise on some subject
"The student completed her dissertation for the degree of doctor."

divination
a successful guess; clever conjecture
"Her divination of the winner was accurate."

ebullient
overflowing with enthusiasm, high spirits
"After winning the game, the fans were ebullient."

ecclesiastical
of the church
"His writings were based on ecclesiastical discipline."

echelon
any of the levels of responsibility or importance in an organization
"She worked in the echelon where major decisions were made."

eczema
an inflammatory, itching disease of the skin
"A victim of eczema, she could not wear makeup on her face."

effectuate
to bring about; cause to happen; effect
"The team members are trying to effectuate change in spring training rules."

egalitarian
advocating, or characterized by the belief that all men should have equal political, social and economic rights
"The country's government was egalitarian."

ellipsis
the omission of a word or words necessary for complete grammatical construction but understood in the context
"Add ellipsis where I have indicated on the rough draft of the legal pleading."

embarrass
to cause to feel self-conscious, ill at ease
"He did not want to embarrass himself in front of his friends."

emulate
to try to equal or surpass; to rival successfully
"The baby birds strutted back and forth trying to emulate the actions of their parents."

encapsulate
to put in concise form; condense
"We tried to encapsulate the week's news in five minutes."

entomology
the study of insects
"My career in entomology began with a fascination about butterflies."

ephemeral
lasting a very short time
"The sunset was ephemeral in its beauty."

epitome
a short statement of the main points of a book, report, incident; abstract; summary; representative or typical of a class
"He was the epitome of jockeys everywhere - slim, wiry and brisk."

equivocal
two or more meanings; purposely vague; misleading; ambiguous
"Her answer was equivocal, but we couldn't get a definite opinion."

esoteric
beyond the understanding or knowledge or most people
"Few people attended the esoteric lecture on holography."

etymology
The origin and development of a word, affix, phrase, etc.
"The origin and development of words is a branch of linguistics called etymology."

eulogy
speech or writing in praise of a person, event or thing; commendation
"We listened with full hearts to the eulogy on President Kennedy."

euphoria
a feeling of vigor, well-being, or high spirits
"The team had the euphoria that comes from winning."

exacerbate
to exasperate; annoy; irritate; embitter
"He intended to exacerbate the already tense situation by making an exorbitant demand."

exonerate
to relieve of a burden; unload; free from guilt; absolve
"This alibi would prove his innocence and exonerate him of the crime."

expedient
useful for effecting a desired result
"It was expedient for him to alter the facts."

expertise
the skill, knowledge, judgment of an expert
"She was known for her expertise in music."

expletive
an oath or exclamation
"She shouted an expletive when the car would not start."

expropriate
to deprive of ownership; dispossess
"The state will expropriate acreage for the new airport."

facetious
joking, or trying to be jocular, esp. at an inappropriate time
"His mother could not tolerate his facetious remarks."

Fahrenheit
a temperature scale
"Normal body temperature is 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit."

fastidious
not easy to please; very critical or discriminating
"With fastidious attention to detail, the musician practiced the piece again."

feasible
capable of being done or carried out; possible; practicable
"Chartering a bus seems the most feasible method of transportation."

felicitous
well-chosen; appropriate; apt; yielding great pleasure
"He was a felicitous choice for the new position."

ferocious
fierce; savage; violently cruel
"The lion has a ferocious growl."

fictitious
imaginary happening; not real; false; pretended; assumed for disguise
"Some novelists use a fictitious name under which they write."

filibuster
to obstruct the passage of a bill by making long speeches, introducing irrelevant issues, etc.
"The senator carried out his filibuster, ignoring remarks from the floor."

finagle
to cheat; to get something by trickery
"Students find many ways to finagle their way out of homework."

firmament
the sky, viewed poetically as a solid arch or vault
"The sun and the moon are both seen in the firmament at that time."

fissure
long, narrow, deep cleft or crack; dividing or breaking into parts
"The ice, breaking up, opened a wide fissure between the floes."

flabbergast
to make speechless with amazement; astonish
"Seeing a dog climb a tree may flabbergast you."

flourish
grow vigorously; thrive; prosper
"These plants will flourish if you give them proper water and fertilizer."

fluctuate
to move back and forth, up and down; to be continually changing
"Bank interest rates fluctuate from time to time."

forfeit
to lose, give up, or be deprived of
"You forfeit privileges by not registering."

fraudulent
deceitful; based on trickery; intentional deception
"The investigation proved the papers to be fraudulent."

fricassee
a dish of meat cut into pieces and stewed in a gravy
"Chicken fricassee tastes good on a cold evening."

galleon
large Spanish ship of the 15 th /16 th century
"The galleon had four decks at the stern."

gambol
to jump and skip about in play; frolic
"To gambol about the dance floor is to have a good time."

gauche
lacking social grace; tactless
"My companion's gauche remarks to the staff were very embarrassing."

gazetteer
a geographical dictionary
"The gazetteer portion of this dictionary contains more than seven thousand place names."

geriatrics
branch of medicine dealing with the elderly
"As the population ages, geriatrics will become more lucrative."

gourmet
a connoisseur of fine food and drink
"A good gourmet restaurant covets a recommendation from a food critic."

grievance
circumstance thought to be unjust; resentment or complaint
"Many thought she had reason for her grievance."

guileless
candid, frank; open
"His guileless smile made instant friendships."

harangue
to deliver a long, scolding speech
"I hope the coach doesn't harangue us for the lousy game we played."

harassment
worrying or annoying with repeated attacks
"Sexual harassment in the workplace will not be tolerated."

heartily
friendly, sincere, cordial way; with zest, enthusiasm
"He laughed heartily, thoroughly enjoying the play."

hegemony
leadership or dominance, especially that of one state or nation over others
"The Chinese say the Soviets are establishing military hegemony over the free world."

hemorrhage
heavy bleeding
"Jim had a bad hemorrhage in his arm after the auto accident."

hepatitis
an inflammation of the liver
"Exposure to the hepatitis virus prevents a person from donating blood."

herbivorous
feeding on plants
"Deer and sheep are herbivorous animals."

hospitable
friendly, kind and solicitous toward guests; favoring comfort of new arrivals; receptive or open to new ideas
"Southern people are said to be most hospitable even to strangers."

humanity
human; human characteristics or nature; mankind; people
"Humanity everywhere does not always have the same kindness or sympathy."

hybrid
anything of mixed origin, unlike parts
"Rock and roll is a hybrid of blues and jazz."

hygiene
science of health and its maintenance; sanitary practices; cleanness
"We are taught hygiene for the preservation of health and prevention of disease."

hyperbole
obvious and intentional exaggeration
"A clown uses hyperbole to make the stunts funnier."

hypochondriac
a person who has hypochondria
"The hypochondriac made his tenth visit to the hospital in ten days."

hypocrisy
a pretending to be what one is not, or to feel what one does not feel
"The senator showed his hypocrisy by saying he was for the bill and then voting against it."

ideology
the doctrines, opinions, or way of thinking of an individual class, etc.
"Democracy is the American ideology."

idiosyncrasy
personal peculiarity or mannerism
"It was her idiosyncrasy to wear earmuffs in warm weather."

ignominy
shame and dishonor
"What he did brought ignominy to his friends and family."

immunity
resistance to disease; projection against disease
"Having a childhood disease does not always develop an immunity to it."

impasse
deadlock
"Russia and the United States reached an impasse in their negotiations."

impecunious
having no money
"I am sorry to announce that the school board is in an impecunious situation as a result of Proposition 13."

impertinent
not showing proper respect or manners
"The impertinent child must be taught some manners."

imperturbable
that cannot be disconcerted, disturbed, or excited; impassive
"The imperturbable cat sat in the midst of the moving."

implement
any article or device used or needed for a given activity; fulfill
"The hammer and the saw are needed by the carpenter to implement his job."

inaugurate
to introduce into office with ceremonies
"Every four years we inaugurate a President."

incongruous
lacking harmony or agreement
"Hiking boots were incongruous to the wet suit outfit."

incorrigible
that cannot be corrected, improved, or reformed
"They held out little hope for the prisoner because he was incorrigible."

incredulous
showing doubt or disbelief
"Their eyes were large with incredulous joy."

indiscreet
lacking prudence; unwise; careless
"She was indiscreet in going shopping during school hours."

indomitable
not easily discouraged
"Even after three unsuccessful attempts, the new skier was indomitable."

inducement
motive; incentive; persuasion
"As an inducement for entering into the contract, she would receive a percentage of sales."

inertia
a tendency to remain in a fixed condition without change
"The nation was declining due to inertia."

infatuated
lacking sound judgment; foolish
"He was infatuated by the John Wayne movie and decided to become a cowboy."

infirmity
feebleness; weakness; frailty or ailment; defect
"We realized his infirmity kept him a captive of a wheelchair."

inimical
unfriendly; hostile
"The inimical participants at the rally prevented the audience from having fun."

inordinate
lacking restraint or moderation
"The press and public took an inordinate interest in everything he did."

insatiable
constantly wanting more; that cannot be satisfied or appeased
"After two banana splits, we knew he had an insatiable appetite."

inscrutable
that cannot be easily understood
"Charley Chan was often inscrutable."

insinuation
sly hint or suggestion
"Your insinuation of unfairness on my part is unjust."

intermittent
stopping and starting again at intervals; periodic
"Heavy traffic forced us into intermittent driving."

intravenous
in, or directly into, a vein or veins
"The doctor prescribed intravenous feeding for the patient."

inveigle
to lead on with deception
"The salesman intended to inveigle me into buying the car."

irascible
easily angered; quick-tempered
"The irascible old man is constantly picking fights."

irreparable
not reparable; that cannot be repaired, mended, remedied
"If the condors disappear, that will be an irreparable loss."

isthmus
a neck; a narrow passage; narrow strip of land, having water at each side and connecting two larger bodies of land
"The Isthmus of Panama connects Central America and South America."

jamboree
a large festive gathering
"They scheduled a jamboree in the town park for this weekend."

javelin
a slender metal-tipped shaft thrown for distance
"The next javelin thrower holds the Olympic record for this event."

judicious
having, applying, or showing sound judgment; wise and careful
"The judicious driver stopped at the crosswalk."

kayak
an Eskimo canoe, or one similar
"The ocean was too rough to go out in the kayak."

khaki
a light yellowish brown color
"The soldiers wore their khaki uniforms."

knowledge
understanding or skill gained by experience or learning
"Two weeks of tennis lessons increased my knowledge of the game."

lackadaisical
listless; languid
"Tom was lackadaisical in the hot, humid weather."

languid
sluggish
"She was a languid person, lacking force and quickness."

laryngitis
inflammation of the voice box
"I always get laryngitis at the end of a cold."

laureate
worthy of honor; distinguished; pre-eminent, especially among poets
"Rudyard Kipling was a poet laureate of England."

leisurely
without haste; deliberate; slow; unhurried
"He strolled leisurely along the boardwalk."

leniency
mildness; permissiveness
"The judge was known for his leniency with first time offenders."

leukemia
a cancerous disease of the tissues and often the blood
"The leukemia patient needed a bone marrow transplant."

lieutenant
an officer empowered to act for a higher official
"The lieutenant brought the message to the meeting."

luminous
giving off light; shining; bright
"The moon was luminous in the night."

maelstrom
a strong violent whirlpool; a great turmoil
"Their dog's illness caused the family a maelstrom of emotions."

malfeasance
wrongful conduct, especially by a public official
"The mayor's malfeasance resulted in a recall election."

malleable
capable of being changed, molded, trained, etc.
"Tin is a very malleable metal."

maneuver
any movement or procedure intended as a skillful or shrewd step toward some objective
"The large ship's maneuver brought it closer to port."

masquerade
a party at which people wear masks and costumes
"What are you wearing to the masquerade ball?"

mediocre
ordinary; commonplace
"Because the service was only mediocre, we left a small tip."

metamorphosis
change of form, shape, structure, or substance
"The metamorphosis of a caterpillar into a butterfly is one of nature's miracles."

mimicry
the action, art or instance of imitating
"With your gift of mimicry, you should be in show business."

miniature
something much smaller than the usual size
"That is an impressive collection of miniature cars."

miscellaneous
consisting of many things of different sorts
"Most people have a drawer for all their miscellaneous things."

mischievous
conduct that is often playful but causes harm or annoyance
"My mischievous puppy chewed the corner off my favorite book."

mulligatawny
an East Indian soup of meat, etc., flavored with curry
"Mother had a very special recipe for mulligatawny."

munificence
very generous in giving; lavish
"The president thanked the donor for her munificence."

mystique
a set of beliefs and attitudes developing around an object
"The true mystique of jogging cannot be appreciated by non-runners."

nauseous
affected with or tending to cause stomach distress
"I felt nauseous after eating too much ice cream."

nautical
of the sea or navigation
"This fish restaurant has a nautical decor."

novelette
short fictional story
"The novelette was made into a movie script."

nuptial
of or relating to marriage or a wedding
"The nuptial ceremony will begin at 7:00 p.m."

obsolescent
going out of use; becoming outmoded
"Phonograph records are becoming obsolescent."

occasion
fact or event making something possible; happening; occurrence
"A chance meeting was the occasion of the renewal of their friendship."

occurrence
happening; event; something that takes place
"The second occurrence of the conference will not be until next year."

oligarchy
a form of government in which the ruling power belongs to a few persons
"Political office was restricted to those who knew a member of the oligarchy."

omniscient
having infinite knowledge
"Goethe was omniscient in his era."

onomatopoeia
formation of a word by imitating the natural sound associated with the object or action involved
"He used onomatopoeia to create sounds in his poetry."

opaque
not letting light pass through; not transparent or translucent
"The window shade was opaque, emitting no light at all."

ophthalmologist
a physician specializing in diseases of the eye
"The ophthalmologist had to dilate the patient's eyes."

orthodox
traditional; conservative in belief
"He was very orthodox in his beliefs and practices."

pachyderm
any of various thick-skinned, hoofed mammals
"The pachyderm house at the zoo is home for the elephants."

paraphernalia
personal belongings; articles used in a particular activity
"Bring along your fishing paraphernalia when we go camping next week."

parsimonious
miserly
"Scrooge was a parsimonious man."

pasteurize
partial sterilization of a fluid by exposure to heat
"The dairy will pasteurize the milk before bottling."

patriarch
the father and ruler of a family
"The family patriarch always sits at the head of the table."

perceptible
capable of being noticed
"The difference between the two brands of hot dogs is hardly perceptible."

perennial
lasting or active throughout the whole year
"To cut down on yardwork I planted mostly perennial plants."

pernicious
fatal; deadly
"The common cold is usually not a pernicious disease."

perpetuity
the state or quality of being perpetual
"Perpetuity is implied in the fundamental law of all national governments."

pharmaceutical
a medicinal material or product
"The pharmaceutical company introduced its newest drug."

phenomenal
highly remarkable
"Abraham Lincoln had a phenomenal memory."

phlegm
thick, stringy mucus discharged from the throat, as during a cold
"The mixture of honey and lemon helped to rid his throat of phlegm."

pirouette
a rapid whirling or turning on the toe or ball of the foot
"The ballerina performed the pirouette perfectly."

plagiarize
to take (ideas, writings, etc.) from (another) and pass them off as one's own
"The teacher told the class not to plagiarize any work."

plausible
seemingly true; seemingly honest, trustworthy, etc.
"The story he gave us sounded plausible."

plebeian
vulgar, coarse, or common
"She has such a plebeian taste in home decorating."

plenary
for attendance by all members
"The plenary session of the association was called to order by the president."

pneumonia
a disease of the lungs characterized by inflammation and congestion
"Seniors, particularly, are advised to have flu shots to guard against pneumonia developing as a secondary infection."

poinsettia
Mexican and Central American plant with yellow flowers surrounded by tapering red leaves resembling petals
"The name of the poinsettia plant is often mispronounced."

posthumous
happening after ones death
"The athlete's posthumous induction into the Hall of Fame was very emotional."

precipitate
to cause to happen before expected
"The jolt may precipitate an explosion."

precursor
a person or thing that goes before
"Elvis was the precursor of rock and roll."

premiere
to exhibit (a play, movie, etc.) for the first time
"The audience was filled with anticipation while waiting for the premiere performance to commence."

prerogative
an exclusive right or privilege exercised by virtue of rank, office, etc.
"It is the prerogative of the senior class to sit in this section."

prevision
foresight or foreknowledge
"Facing the downpour, she was thankful for her prevision to bring an umbrella."

prodigy
a person, thing or act so extraordinary as to inspire wonder
"Mozart was a child prodigy."

profligate
extremely wasteful; recklessly extravagant
"The profligate spender was soon penniless."

progeny
children, descendants, or offspring collectively
"The old man's progeny gathered at his home to celebrate."

proliferate
to multiply rapidly
"As nuclear weapons proliferate, we are all concerned."

propriety
conformity with what is proper or fitting
"An etiquette book gives rules of propriety."

pterodactyl
an extinct flying reptile
"The rendition of the pterodactyl was my favorite part of the dinosaur exhibit."

pulchritude
beauty; comeliness
"The damsel's pulchritude was apparent to everyone."

quadratic
an algebraic term involving the square and no higher power of an unknown quantity
"Solve this quadratic equation for the value of x."

query
to question
"Use the query command when you want to search a database for information."

quixotic
extravagantly chivalrous or romantically idealistic
"Patrolling the streets with knights in white armor is the quixotic method of solving crime."

raillery
light, good-natured ridicule or satire
"Sir Winston Churchill's raillery often provoked laughter."

rapport
relationship, esp. a close one; agreement; harmony
"She and her sister enjoyed a friendly rapport."

rapscallion
a rascal; rogue
"The rapscallion ran off with the money."

receipt
written acknowledgement; to mark paid
"The receipt showed the invoice had been paid in full."

reciprocal
done or felt equally by both sides
"They had a reciprocal feeling of admiration for each other."

reconciliation
the act of restoring friendly relations
"The treaty provided for a reconciliation between the two countries."

reconnaissance
an exploratory survey or examination
"The corporal led a special squad on a reconnaissance mission."

redolence
the quality or state of being redolent, fragrant, aromatic
"I liked the redolence of the pine boughs."

rejuvenate
to make seem fresh or new again
"A long vacation will rejuvenate him."

reminisce
to think, talk or write about remembered events or experiences
"We sat at the table to reminisce about our childhood experiences."

rendezvous
a planned meeting; a place for a planned meeting
"We will rendezvous at the Park and Ride, then go on together to the party."

repatriate
to send back or return to the country of birth, citizenship, or allegiance
"We hope they will repatriate our prisoners of war."

repertoire
the stock of special skills, devices, techniques of a particular person or particular field of endeavor
"The ball player's repertoire was amazing."

repository
a box, chest, closet, or room in which things may be placed for safe keeping
"The jewels were missing from the repository."

reservoir
a place where water is stored in quantity
"During the drought the reservoir was dangerously low."

resilient
recovering strength, spirits, good humor, etc., quickly; buoyant
"The American people are very resilient; they bounce back no matter what happens."

resuscitate
to revive from apparent death or from unconsciousness.
"The paramedic's attempts to resuscitate the crash victim were unsuccessful."

retaliate
to return like for like
"The government plans to retaliate for the terrorism."

retroactive
having application to or effect on things prior to its enactment
"The retroactive pay increase was appreciated by all of the workers."

reverie
a dreamy, fanciful, or visionary notion or daydream
"Her reverie was broken by his loud arrival."

rhetoric
the art of speaking correctly
"I have to prepare a ten minute speech for my rhetoric class tomorrow."

ricochet
a glancing rebound
"If you hit the ball here, it will ricochet off the table and land in the pocket."

rigmarole
a foolishly involved, fussy, or time-wasting procedure
"Registration for school is full of rigmarole."

rosette
ornament made of ribbons gathered in the shape of a rose
"He wore a rosette in the buttonhole of his lapel."

sacrosanct
very sacred, holy, or inviolable
"The congregation felt the church was sacrosanct."

sanguinary
bloodthirsty
"Some corsairs were very sanguinary."

satchel
A small flat-bottomed bag, sometimes with a shoulder strap
"Before backpacks became popular, schoolchildren usually carried their books in a satchel."

scallion
variety of onion; long stem and almost bulbless root
"We prefer the scallion rather than the large white or yellow onion."

scheme
a systemic or organized design
"That's a very nice color scheme you have picked out."

schism
a split or division in an organized group or society
"The selection of a new minister caused a schism in the church."

scrimmage
in football, the play that follows the snap of the ball
"The tailback carried the ball twenty yards from the line of scrimmage."

scrumptious
very pleasing, attractive esp. to the taste; delicious
"Not a crumb of the scrumptious cake was left."

secede
to withdraw from an organization
"South Carolina was the first state to secede from the Union."

segue
to make a smooth transition, as from one topic to another
"The speaker was noted for an ability to segue between opening jokes and the serious topic at hand."

seismologist
a scientist who studies earthquakes
"The seismologist confirmed that the earthquake was centered twenty miles offshore."

seraglio
the palace of a Turkish sultan
"The crown jewels were located in the seraglio."

serene
not disturbed or troubled
"The serene lake did not have a ripple on the surface."

serviette
a table napkin
"A serviette depicting Christmas scenes was at everyone's place."

siege
a continued attempt to gain possession of something
"During the Civil War, the siege of Vicksburg lasted 186 days."

silhouette
an outline of a figure, garment, etc.
"Jean's face was a silhouette against the screen."

sleuth
detective, or to act like a detective
"It took a real sleuth to determine the origin of that word."

solemn
done or made seriously and thoughtfully
"The veterans hold a solemn ceremony on Memorial Day."

solicitous
showing care, attention, or concern
"The parents were solicitous about the child's health."

solstice
either of two points on the sun's ecliptic at which it is farthest north or south of the equator
"In the northern hemisphere, the winter solstice comes just before Christmas."

somnolent
sleepy; drowsy
"The somnolent truck driver stopped for coffee."

sophomoric
of, like, or characteristic of a sophomore or sophomores, often regarded as self-assured, opinionated, though immature
"The sophomoric antics of our government were exposed."

spasmodic
having an involuntary contraction, temporarily or intermittently
"She had a spasmodic tic in her right eyelid."

spectroscopy
the use of the spectroscope to study optics
"The study of optics is aided by spectroscopy."

stanchion
an upright bar, post or support
"Be sure you tie the sail securely to the stanchion."

statuary
sculpture, a collection of statues
"The statuary lining the rose garden beckoned the visitors."

subterfuge
an expedient used to evade, escape or conceal
"The students pretended to be sick as a subterfuge to taking the test."

succinct
clearly and briefly stated
"The commander's orders to his men were succinct."

succumb
give away to; yield or submit
"We expected him to succumb to persuasion."

superfluous
not needed, unnecessary, irrelevant
"I have cut down every superfluous expense."

surreptitious
acting in a secret, stealthy way
"The conspirators held a surreptitious meeting."

surveillance
supervision or inspection
"The police kept the prisoners under constant surveillance."

svelte
slender, lithe
"You look very svelte in that new outfit."

sympathize
to share or understand another's feelings; express pity
"They could sympathize with their neighbors who had been robbed."

synthesis
the putting together of parts or elements so as to form a whole
"A good composition is the synthesis of many skills."

tachometer
a device for indicating speed of rotation
"Some sports cars have a tachometer located next to the speedometer."

taciturn
habitually unwilling to talk; reserved in speech
"The taciturn farmer watched as we fixed our car."

therapeutic
serving to cure or heal; curative
"The therapeutic treatment hastened his recovery."

thesaurus
a dictionary of synonyms
"This word processing program features an excellent thesaurus, making it easy for the user to find appropriate synonyms."

tortoise
a land turtle
"In one of Aesop's fables the tortoise wins a race against the hare."

treacherous
providing insecure footing or support
"It was a very treacherous climb along the rock cliffs."

umbrage
resentment; offense
"I take umbrage at that outrageous remark."

unconscionable
not being in accordance with what is right or just
"Such unconscionable behavior will result in expulsion from school."

unscathed
not hurt, uninjured, unharmed
"She was unscathed by their criticism."

utilitarian
of or having to do with utility; usefulness
"A garbage can is a very utilitarian gift."

variegated
having patches, stripes or marks of different colors
"This variegated ivy would look nice on the trellis."

vaudeville
light theater featuring variety acts
"Bob Hope started his career as a vaudeville actor."

vertigo
a subjective sensation of dizziness in which an individual feels that he, or his surrounding, is whirling about sickeningly
"With too much stress, she suffered from vertigo."

ventriloquist
someone whose voice can seemingly be made to come from another source
"The conversation between the ventriloquist and the wooden dummy delighted the audience."

vignette
a short, delicate literary sketch
"The vignette was a great work by the promising author."

xenophobia
fear or hatred of strangers or foreigners or of anything foreign or strange
"Xenophobia limits people from learning about others."

xylophone
a musical percussion instrument
"The xylophone is an instrument in the percussion family."

zealous
very eager; very enthusiastic
"The politician's zealous supporters campaigned vigorously."

