abate
to make less in amount, degree, force
"The weatherman said that the storm would abate."

abhor
to shrink from in fear; disgust or hatred; detest
"I abhor baiting my fishhook with worms."

abode
a place where one lives or stays; home; residence
"He remained in his abode."

absurd
so clearly untrue or unreasonable as to be ridiculous
"It was absurd to say the baby could reach the counter."

active
lively, busy, agile
"Last night I babysat for a very active two-year old."

advise
to give advice or an opinion to; counsel
"The lawyer will advise her client."

against
in opposition to
"The student council voted against school uniforms."

almond
the edible, nutlike kernel of the small, dry peachlike fruit of a tree
"Modesto is known as an almond growing region."

amaze
to fill with great surprise or sudden wonder
"The musician's talent will amaze the audience."

antics
odd and funny; ludicrous; pranks, capers
"The antics of the little monkey made him seem almost human."

appoint
to name or select officially for an office, position
"We will appoint a chairman."

argue
to dispute or quarrel.
"My friend and I often argue over trivial details."

arrange
to put in the correct, proper, or suitable order
"The librarian will arrange the books."

ascend
to go upward
"My ears always pop when planes ascend."

aspirin
a white crystalline drug used as a pain and fever remedy
"The doctor prescribed aspirin and bed rest for my cold."

ballad
a romantic or sentimental song with the same melody for each stanza
"The singer sang a beautiful ballad."

ballot
a ticket or paper by which a vote is registered; act or method of voting
"The class president was elected by a written ballot."

balsa
a tropical American tree that yields an extremely light and buoyant wood used for airplane models, rafts
"The balsa provides wood for models."

bankrupt
a person legally declared unable to pay his debts
"The store's owner was bankrupt and had to go out of business."

banter
to tease or make fun of in a playful, good-natured way
"The children banter with each other."

barley
a cereal grass; grain used in making soups, malts and as feed for animals
"My mother added barley to the soup to thicken it."

barren
not bringing useful results, unproductive; unprofitable
"The barren field was eroding."

barter
to trade for goods or services without using money
"The market offered to barter groceries for custodial work."

basin
a washbowl or sink
"Rinse your contact lenses over a basin with the drain closed."

believe
to take as true; to have confidence in the promise of another
"I believe in my religion."

benefit
promotion of welfare or prosperity
"This project will benefit all mankind."

boggle
to confuse or overwhelm
"Her idea would boggle your mind."

brief
condensed; short; outline of an argument
"Her synopsis of the story was very brief."

burglar
a person who commits burglary
"The burglar was brought to trial."

business
a commercial or industrial enterprise
"Starting a new business requires money and dedication."

caboose
the trainmen's car on a freight train, usually at the rear
"The caboose was the last car."

caldron
a large kettle or boiler
"The stew simmered in the caldron."

career
one's progress through life or in a particular vocation
"She chose her career carefully."

casserole
earthenware or glass baking dish, or food cooked in one
"Please bring a vegetable casserole to the pot luck."

category
one of the divisions used in a system of classification
"This chemistry book should be placed in the science category."

character
a person in a novel, story or play
"The author created a very believable character in this novel."

chocolate
a food prepared from ground cacao beans.
"For dessert we are serving chocolate cake."

chorus
music written for group singing
"The group joined together for the chorus."

collar
the part of a garment that encircles the neck; band or chain or leather for the neck of a dog, cat or other pet
"Laddie wore a jeweled collar."

compel
to enforce or constrain, as to do something
"The new laws compel judges to issue the maximum sentence."

computer
a programmable electronic device that performs operations on data at high speed
"Knowing how to use a computer can help you get a better job."

convert
to change from one form to another
"We learned how to convert fractions to decimals."

convoy
a protecting escort, as for ships or troops; a group traveling together
"Destroyers will convoy the troopships."

copra
the source of coconut meat or coconut oil
"Hawaii produces a great amount of copra."

corral
an enclosure for holding or capturing horses or other livestock; pen; to confine; roundup
"The wild horses were penned in the corral on the ranch."

corrupt
spoiled; contaminated; morally unsound
"The corrupt official accepted a bribe."

creeper
a person or animal that moves along close to the ground; lowest gear in a truck; one-piece garment for a baby; vine with tendrils
"The small bird was a creeper searching for insects."

crick
a painful muscle spasm or cramp in the neck or back, etc.
"Watching the tennis match gave her a crick in the neck."

crimson
deep red color
"The sky, at sunset, became beautifully crimson."

crisis
a turning point in the course of anything; decisive or crucial time, stage of event
"His fever reached its crisis at three in the morning."

custom
usual practice of behaving; habit; duties or taxes imposed by a government on imported or exported goods
"Having parties at Halloween was the custom of the neighborhood."

dampen
to make moist; to deaden, depress or lessen
"She was asked to dampen the clothes so they could be ironed later."

dapper
small and neat; trim; active and smart
"He looked dapper in the new suit from his tailor."

data
things known or assumed; facts or figures for information
"The computer analyst fed the data into the machine."

deafen
overwhelm with noise
"The volume of the loudspeaker will deafen the audience."

debark
to unload from or leave a ship or aircraft
"We will proceed to debark the material as soon as the plane stops."

decipher
decode
"I could not decipher the doctor's handwriting."

defect
lack of something for completeness; deficiency; forsake one's cause and join the opposition
"It was on sale because of a defect in the pattern."

deflect
to turn or make bend to one side; swerve
"They used their shields to deflect the arrows."

deft
skillful in a quick, sure and easy way; dexterous
"With deft fingers, she continued knitting the sweater."

depress
to press down; push or pull down; lower
"If you depress this button, water comes out."

depth
distance from the top downward; deepness; intensity, as of colors
"They dropped a stone in the well to try to determine its depth."

desist
to cease; stop; abstain from action
"The librarian urged them to desist their discussion so others could study and concentrate."

dessert
usually the sweet course of a dinner; pie; cake, puddings, etc.
"Lemon pie is my favorite dessert."

destroy
to tear down; demolish; to break up; ruin; crush
"The demolition crew will destroy the whole building."

detract
to take something desirable away from
"Frowning will detract from the beauty of her face."

devoid
completely without; empty or destitute
"Crippled badly from the accident, he was devoid of any way to resume his former occupation."

dictionary
wordbook, lexicon
"If you can't spell the beginning of a word, it is hard to look it up in a dictionary."

direct
consisting of the exact words of the writer or speaker; to show the way to
"It was a direct quotation by the speaker."

discard
to throw away, abandon; get rid of as having no value
"They planned to discard the unwanted clothing."

discipline
training that develops self-control or character
"In obedience classes, pet owners learn to discipline their pets consistently."

dismal
causing gloom; depressing; bleak; dreary
"It was a dark and dismal day."

disrupt
to break up; rend asunder; to disturb or interrupt
"Bringing up the subject will disrupt the orderliness of this meeting."

distinct
clearly perceived or marked off; plain, well-defined; individual
"The medal he received showed a distinct and special honor."

distract
to draw the mind away in another direction; divert
"In order to take it from the child, we had to distract his attention by allowing him to pet the cat."

distress
to cause sorrow or misery; pain; suffering
"Arthritic pain causes distress in her stiff knee when she walks."

dither
to be nervously excited or confused
"Before the curtain rose, she was all in a dither."

dogged
not giving in readily; persistent; stubborn
"He showed a dogged resistance to all arguments."

dormant
sleeping; quiet; still; inoperative; inactive
"Some plants and animals are dormant during the cold weather."

dosage
the system to be followed in taking doses, as of medicine
"He forgot to take his dosage of cough medicine."

doting
foolishly fond; excessively
"Sometimes a doting parent can cause problems for the child."

dowdy
not neat or stylish in dress or appearance; shabby
"Many of the candidates appeared dowdy."

downy
soft and fluffy, like down
"The child petted the downy chick."

draggy
slow moving; lethargic; dull; boring
"Some of us are draggy, especially in the early morning."

dreadful
inspiring dread; terrible or awesome
"The volcano's eruption was dreadful."

drizzle
a fine, mistlike rain
"The drizzle was just enough to make the sidewalks slippery."

dual
of two; having or composed of two parts or kinds; double
"He had a dual personality, sometimes very kind, sometimes very aloof and severe."

dusky
lacking light; dim; shadowy
"In the dusky room, he could only identify outlines."

eclipse
the partial or total obscuring of the sun when the moon comes between it and the earth; or of the moon when the earth's shadow is cast upon it.
"We studied the lunar eclipse in class."

edict
an official proclamation or public order made by authority or decree
"The edict issued by the King had to be obeyed by all."

efface
to rub out, as from a surface; erase; wipe out; obliterate
"They tried to efface the memory."

elude
to avoid or escape from by quickness, cunning, evade
"We will try to elude the traffic congestion."

embark
to board a ship, airplane; to begin a journey, an enterprise
"We embark on our journey to Europe at 7:00 p.m."

emblem
a visible symbol of a thing, class of people; a sign
"The cross is an emblem of Christianity."

emboss
to cover or decorate with designs; to carve, raise or print a design so it is above the surface; embellish; ornament
"She asked her sister to emboss the new chair."

emerge
to develop or evolve as something new, improved
"A new town will emerge after construction."

employ
to engage services or labor for pay
"The new business is seeking to employ fifty qualified workers."

encamp
to set up a campsite; to put in a camp
"The meadow along the river looked like a good site to encamp."

enchant
to charm; bewitch; set a spell on as by magic; delight
"Her acting will enchant all who see the play."

endorse
to give approval to; support; sanction
"The community will endorse the candidate."

endow
provide with money, talent, quality or property, etc.
"In her will, she will endow the hospital with a permanent income."

engorge
to devour greedily
"The hungry man seemed to engorge his meal."

engross
to occupy one's whole attention
"This book will thoroughly engross him."

engulf
to swallow up; overwhelm
"The raging river will engulf the house."

enough
sufficient
"Do you have enough clothes for your trip?"

enrich
to give greater value, importance, effectiveness, etc., to
"The new class will enrich the curriculum."

error
mistake
"Be careful that you don't make an error in spelling this word."

erupt
burst forth or out; to break out in a rash
"Lava will erupt from the volcano."

ethnic
designating any, or of any, of the basic groups or divisions of mankind, having the same customs, characteristics, history or language
"His ethnic background was Italian."

excel
to be better or greater than; superior to
"Tests showed he would excel in Social Studies."

facet
any of a number of sides or aspects, as of a personality
"They had never seen the generous facet of his personality."

facile
not hard to do or achieve
"After years of practice, her violin playing appeared facile."

faithful
having or showing a strong sense of duty or responsibility
"My dog is a very faithful companion."

famine
any acute shortage
"The people were suffering from the famine."

feather
the lightweight body covering of birds
"Use the feather duster to clean these figurines."

February
the second month of the year
"Valentine's Day is February 14th."

feeble
without force or effectiveness
"Their feeble attempt was not successful."

fiction
anything made up or imagined, as a statement or story
"The librarian directed us to the fiction section."

flaming
burning with fire; blazing; intensely emotional
"We watched the fire flaming and casting sparks high in the air."

flimsy
thin and easily broken or damaged; poorly made and fragile
"The door was flimsy and could not be locked."

fluent
moving or flowing smoothly; able to write or speak easily, expressively
"The teacher was fluent in three languages."

fracas
noisy fight or loud quarrel; brawl
"They were having a fracas in the hall."

furnish
supply, provide or equip; to put furniture into a room
"They decided to furnish the den with modern pieces."

gallant
stately; imposing
"The gallant ship cruised into the harbor."

gamut
the entire range or extent, as of emotions
"The actress demonstrated the gamut of emotions."

garble
to confuse or mix up unintentionally
"Although she had studied the poem, she started to garble it when it was her turn to recite."

genius
remarkable intellectual aptitude
"Only a genius can join Mensa, the high IQ society."

giraffe
large, cud-chewing animal with a very long neck
"Seeing the giraffe made our trip to the zoo more enjoyable."

glisten
to shine or sparkle with reflected light, as a wet or polished surface
"The new car did glisten in the sunlight."

glossy
having a smooth, shiny appearance or finish
"The glossy cat was sleeping in the window."

goulash
a beef stew with onion, paprika and caraway seeds.
"My Hungarian grandmother's favorite dish was goulash."

govern
to exercise authority over; rule, administer; direct or control
"The officials will govern in an orderly manner."

grammar
the system of word structures and word arrangements of a given language at a given time
"In order to speak the language, an understanding of grammar is helpful."

granite
a very hard, crystalline, plutonic rock, gray to pink in color, consisting of feldspar, quartz, and smaller amounts of other minerals
"The polished granite shone in the sunlight."

graze
to feed on (growing grass, herbage, a pasture, etc.)
"The cattle will graze on the slopes all winter."

gritty
of, like, or containing sand; brave; plucky
"Water from the creek left a gritty substance in the bottom of the cup."

gruel
thin, easily digested broth made of meal with water or milk
"The hot, tasty gruel did not hurt her sore throat as she swallowed."

heckle
to annoy or harass by interrupting with questions or taunts
"The audience began to heckle the speaker."

hinge
a joint or device on which a door, gate, lid, etc., swings
"The hinge needed oiling."

hobble
to walk lamely or awkwardly; limp
"The horse tried to hobble to the corral."

honest
frank and open
"The store owner had an honest face."

honor
to respect greatly; regard highly; esteem
"The family met to honor the visiting grandparents."

hopeless
impossible to solve, deal with, teach, etc.
"After working on the problem for ten hours, it appeared hopeless."

hostile
having or showing ill will; unfriendly; antagonistic
"The lion appeared hostile as the hunter approached."

hunger
discomfort or pain caused by lack of food
"My hunger pangs kept me from concentrating on the test."

idler
person who does no work; wastes time; lazy person
"No one ever saw him doing things, so they thought him an idler."

ignite
to set fire to; cause to burn
"They will ignite the trees with a torch."

ignore
to disregard deliberately; pay no attention to; refuse to consider
"The driver appeared to ignore the road signs."

impede
to bar or hinder the progress of; obstruct or delay
"Some members tried to impede the program."

impish
mischievous
"The child gave him an impish grin and then ran down the street."

impose
to force on another or others without right or invitation; obtrude
"Although she did not receive an invitation, she tried to impose on the family."

incite
to set in motion, to urge to action; stir up, rouse
"The news of the riot may incite others to act."

induct
to lead in; install, as in office; initiate; enroll in the services
"The chairman used a candlelight ceremony to induct new members."

inert
having few or no active properties
"The inert gas is not considered to be a danger."

inkling
a vague idea or notion; suspicion
"She had an inkling that the biggest present was for her."

innate
existing naturally rather than acquired; possessed at birth, inherent
"He has an innate talent for math."

inset
to insert into something else; a map set inside the border of a larger one; a piece of material sewed into a garment
"The inset shows the downtown section of the city."

inspire
to fill with high or reverent emotion; stimulate to creativity or action
"The concert did inspire him to be a musician."

jabber
fast, incoherent, nonsensical talk; gibberish
"No one could understand the jabber of the twins."

jacket
a short coat
"This blue jacket would look nice with your new skirt."

jagged
having sharp projecting points; notched or ragged
"The jagged edge scratched the smooth surface of the table."

jargon
incoherent speech; gibberish; specialized vocabulary and idioms of those in their own line of work
"She recognized the jargon of classmates taking computer classes."

jetsam
that part of the cargo thrown overboard to lighten the ship in danger; discardings
"Some of the jetsam they threw overboard might be sorely missed later."

jitney
formerly old slang for five cents, a nickel; small car or bus which travels a regular route and charges a low fare for passengers to ride
"The driver of the jitney now charges passengers a dollar."

jostle
to bump or push, as in a crowd; elbow or shove roughly
"As the number increased, the crowd began to jostle the players."

journal
a brief account of daily events
"We kept a journal of our vacation."

kapok
fiber used for stuffing mattresses, sleeping bags, pillows, etc.
"After such a long time of use, the kapok had to be replaced."

kettle
a metal container for boiling or cooking
"I'll boil some water in the kettle for your tea."

kindling
bits of dry wood or other easily-lighted material for starting a fire
"The campers gathered kindling for the fire."

kosher
loosely, prepared according to traditional Jewish recipes
"The kosher pickles were very tasty."

ladle
to dip out and pour as with a ladle
"The cook will ladle the soup for each customer."

lament
an outward expression of sorrow; lamentation; wail
"A long lament was heard in the garden."

lawyer
an attorney
"You should consult your lawyer before signing this contract."

lecture
an informative talk given before an audience, class, etc., and usually prepared beforehand
"The history lecture was very interesting."

lettuce
any of a genus of plants grown for its edible green leaves
"I'll begin washing the lettuce for the salad."

license
a document, printed tag, permit, etc., indicating that such permission had been granted
"The officer asked to see the man's license."

lightning
a flash of light in the sky caused by the discharge of atmospheric electricity from one cloud to another or between a cloud and the earth
"The lightning flashed in the sky."

limb
an arm, leg, or wing
"He was very lucky; only one limb was broken in the accident."

lining
to cause to or to bring to a straight row or conformity; in alignment
"The astronomer was lining up his telescope to look at the stars."

linkage
a linking or being linked
"The investigator studied the linkage between the clues."

listless
having no interest in what is going on about one, as a result of illness, weariness, dejection, etc., spiritless; languid
"The listless dog lay on the floor by the fire."

lonely
alone, solitary
"I was very lonely when I first moved to town."

loose
not confined or restrained; free; unbound
"The sails were loose in the breeze."

lucid
clearheaded; rational
"The lucid thinker explained the axiom."

macaroon
a cookie made chiefly of egg whites, sugar and coconut or almond paste
"I'll bring some macaroon cookies for the bake sale."

machinery
the working parts of a machine or instrument
"The workers had the day off when the machinery broke down."

mackerel
a fish, commonly used in cat food.
"Canned mackerel is my cat's favorite food."

magnet
a piece of iron or steel that attracts metal
"We use a magnet on our refrigerator to hold our shopping list."

margarine
a food product usually made from vegetable oils and skim milk
"Would you like margarine or butter on your toast?"

medley
a musical piece made up of tunes or passages from various works
"The chorus performed the medley very well."

method
a way of doing anything
"What method did you use to arrive at your answer?"

milling
circular or random motion of or as a herd or crowd
"The ducks were milling around the bread crumbs."

mimic
imitative; inclined to copy; to ape; make believe; mock
"The actor could mimic many of his fellow artists."

murmur
a low indistinct sound
"Sitting on the patio, I could hear the murmur of the wind in the trees."

narrate
to tell in writing or speech
"The teacher began to narrate the story."

nectar
any very delicious drink; sweetish liquid in flowers gathered by bees to make honey
"The icy cold lemonade was like nectar."

nightmare
a frightening or oppressing dream
"I had a really scary nightmare last night."

ninth
the ordinal number 9th
"In many districts ninth grade is the first year of high school."

nomad
member of a tribe of people having no permanent home; wanderer
"Like a nomad, he roamed all over the world."

notice
a written or printed sign giving some public information, warning or rule
"The public meeting notice was posted all over town."

nubby
covered with small nubs, or lumps; having a rough, knotted surface
"The nubby fabric was rough to touch."

oblong
longer than broad; elongated, specif., (a) rectangular and longer in one direction than in the other, esp. longer horizontally, (b) elliptical
"They wondered what was in the oblong box."

obstacle
something that stands in the way or opposes
"Scaling the wall was the final challenge of the obstacle course."

occur
to take place; happen
"The celebration will occur next week."

offense
the condition of being offended, esp. of feeling hurt, resentful, or angry; umbrage
"His friend took offense from the joke."

optic
of the eyes; sense of sight
"The optic nerve was not damaged."

orchid
the flower of a tropical plant
"As we stepped off the plane in Hawaii, we were given an orchid lei."

ostrich
a large, swift-running bird of Africa and the Near East, the largest and most powerful of living birds: it has a long neck, very long legs with two toes on each foot, and small, useless wings; the white tail and wing feathers of the male are used in millinery and as trimming
"The white ostrich feather adorned her new hat."

owing
due; unpaid; because of
"The balance owing was ten dollars."

ozone
an unstable, pale-blue gas, with a penetrating odor; it is an allotropic form of oxygen
"The ozone layer is very important for man's survival."

package
a wrapped or boxed thing or group of things
"I hope the package will arrive in the mail today."

pamphlet
a short publication with no cover
"Please send me your pamphlet about summer camp."

parallel
extending in the same direction and same distance apart
"Center Avenue runs parallel to Maple Street."

partner
a person who takes part in some activity in common with another or others
"His partner kept the books, and he did the purchasing."

passage
permission, right, or a chance to pass
"The hunters received passage through the field."

passive
offering no opposition or resistance; submissive; yielding; patient
"The passive cat was carried to the veterinarian's office."

pastime
something that helps time pass enjoyably
"Cooking and making pastry is my favorite pastime."

pasture
to graze or feed on (grass, etc.)
"The cattle will pasture in the meadow."

pattern
a regular, mainly unvarying way of acting or doing
"The psychologist will study the animal's behavior pattern."

people
human beings
"A large group of people gathered to watch the parade."

perturb
to cause to be alarmed, agitated, or upset; disturb or trouble greatly
"The loudspeaker may perturb the musician in the adjoining room."

pesky
annoying; disagreeable; troublesome
"We all swatted at the pesky mosquitoes."

pigment
coloring matter, usually insoluble powder, mixed with oil or water, etc., to make paints; coloring matter in the cells, tissues of plants, animals
"Pigment in some plants is increased when they grow in full sun."

pilgrim
person who wanders; traveler to shrine or holy place; any member of the English Puritans who founded Plymouth colony in 1620
"Priscilla was the bride of a pilgrim."

plunder
to rob or despoil by force, esp. in warfare
"The military will plunder the village after the battle."

polar
opposite in character, nature, direction, etc.
"The twins were polar in their taste in music."

poncho
a cloak like a blanket with a hole in the middle for the head
"The warm poncho is valuable in winter weather."

portion
share; part of
"They were willing to give up a portion of their food."

portly
large and heavy in a dignified, stately way; stout; corpulent
"He bought his clothing in the section for portly men."

possess
to have as an attribute, quality, faculty, etc.
"The man is known to possess wisdom."

posture
the position or carriage of the body in standing or sitting; bearing
"Good posture is important for good health."

powder
any dry substance in the form of very fine, dustlike particles, produced by crushing, grinding, etc.
"Without rain, the soil became a powder."

prepare
to make ready, usually for a specific purpose
"How are you going to prepare for the spelling competition?"

prior
preceding in time; earlier; previous
"References from a prior employer were needed."

proceed
to advance or go on; to move along or to be carried on; come forth
"After answering this question, please proceed to the next."

prompt
quick to act or do; ready; punctual; done, spoken, without delay
"A good example will help to prompt him to turn in his homework."

prosper
succeed; thrive; grow vigorously; wealth; good fortune
"Having found the right soil conditions, his crop began to prosper."

prying
improperly curious or inquisitive
"Someone was prying into her personal affairs."

raccoon
a small carnivore of North America, usually nocturnal
"A raccoon raided our campsite while we were asleep."

rally
to summon or bring together for a common purpose; assist; support a cause
"He was sent to rally the retreating troops."

rampant
growing luxuriantly; flourishing
"The roses were rampant in the garden."

ransom
consideration paid for the release of a captured person
"The kidnapper demanded $500,000 in ransom for the child."

raspberry
small round fleshy red or black berry
"These raspberry preserves won a blue ribbon at the county fair."

rating
a placement in a certain rank or class
"The program received the top rating."

razor
sharp-edged cutting instrument for shaving or cutting off hair
"No one was allowed to use his razor."

react
to act in return or reciprocally
"The director did not expect the actress to react that way."

receive
to take into one's hand or possession
"I hope I receive a portable CD player for my birthday."

redeem
to get back; recover, as by paying a fee
"The renter wants to redeem his deposit."

refuge
a place of safety; shelter; safe retreat
"The deer sought a refuge from the hunters."

relent
to soften in temper; become less severe, stern, stubborn
"Perhaps he will relent and allow you to go if you promise to return early."

remnant
what is left over; remainder; residue
"The small piece of cloth left from the bolt will sell as a remnant."

render
to give, hand over, submit, as for approval; to give in return
"When you finish shopping, the clerk will render a bill for payment."

rescue
to free or save from danger, imprisonment, evil, etc.
"He was a hero because the rescue had been a success."

retain
to keep in mind
"After studying the words for six weeks, we should retain most of them."

retrieve
to get and bring back
"That dog certainly loves to retrieve the ball."

revenge
to inflict damage, injury, or punishment in return for an injury, insult, etc.
"The leaders plotted revenge for the bombing."

riddle
any puzzling, perplexing, or apparently inexplicable person or thing, as a difficult problem or enigmatic saying: enigma
"Rita recited the riddle, and Roger responded."

romaine
a variety of lettuce
"Caesar salad recipes usually call for romaine lettuce."

roommate
one of two or more persons sharing a room
"Luckily, my roommate at camp didn't snore."

ruin
the remains of a fallen building, city, etc., or something destroyed, devastated, decayed, etc.
"The explorer discovered the ruin deep within the jungle."

rumor
definite talk not based on knowledge; hearsay; gossip
"We have heard a rumor that there will be no test tomorrow."

rustle
to make or cause to make an irregular succession of soft sounds
"The leaves rustle in the wind."

safety
freedom from danger; security
"Safety precautions are very important both at home and at school."

scarlet
very bright red with a slightly orange tone
"The scarlet car captured everyone's attention."

scissors
a cutting instrument with handles and a pair of blades
"Using sewing scissors for cutting paper makes them dull."

scribble
illegible or careless handwriting; scrawl
"The doctor's scribble was hard to read."

scurry
to run hastily; scamper
"The rabbits will scurry through the woods."

secure
free from fear, care, doubt, or anxiety; not worried, troubled, or apprehensive
"Within the fort, the cavalry felt secure."

sentry
sentinel, esp. any of the military guard posted to warn of danger
"The sentry would not open the gate to anyone without identification."

session
a school term or period of study
"The fall session of school was about to end."

shaky
not firm; weak, unsteady; trembling, not dependable; questionable
"After the earthquake, the walls were shaky."

shepherd
a person who herds and takes care of sheep
"The shepherd guarded the flock during the night."

signal
a sign or event fixed or understood as the occasion for prearranged combined action
"The bugle will signal the attack."

skeptic
person who habitually doubts, questions or suspends judgment on generally accepted matters
"He was such a skeptic that he was known as 'Doubting Thomas'."

skirmish
a brief encounter between small groups, usually an incident of a battle
"The skirmish was quickly forgotten after the peace treaty was signed."

slacken
to become less active, intense, brisk
"The runners began to slacken their pace."

smoky
emitting smoke, especially in large quantities
"A smoky fire doesn't provide much warmth."

suet
the hard fat about the kidneys and loins of beef and mutton
"I asked the butcher to prepare the suet I need for the plum pudding."

surround
to enclose on all sides; encircle
"For safety reasons we needed to surround our pool with a fence."

tactics
any method used to gain an end; esp., skillful methods or procedure
"Although successful, his tactics were questioned."

tarnish
to dull or discolor the surface of a metal object; to spoil, mar or debase a memory; lose luster from oxidation
"Silver needs to be polished often or it will tarnish."

tariff
duty or tax placed by a government on imports and some exports; any list or scale of prices, charges etc.
"We felt the tariff was too high."

technology
applied science
"The rate of technology seems to increase every day."

terrific
extraordinary; astounding
"We saw a terrific movie last night."

threshold
a doorsill, a beginning point
"The guest paused at the threshold, stunned by the beauty of the room."

traffic
the movement or number of automobiles along a street
"There is a lot more traffic on the freeway these days."

tribute
something given, done, or said, as a gift, testimonial, etc., to show gratitude, respect, honor, or praise
"Their success was a tribute to his leadership."

upheaval
the action or instance of lifting up from beneath, especially the earth's crust
"Ancient volcanoes caused a great deal of upheaval in this area."

uproar
loud, confused noise; din
"The uproar was very difficult to quiet."

useful
that can be used to advantage; helpful
"The fork is a useful implement."

utensil
an instrument or container used in a household
"A ladle is the proper utensil to use for serving soup."

vaccine
any preparation of killed microorganisms, living weakened organisms, etc., introduced into the body to produce immunity to a specific disease by causing the formation of antibodies
"The polio vaccine was a tremendous advance in medicine."

veteran
a former member of the armed forces
"Only one World War I veteran attended the ceremony this year."

vigil
watchful staying awake; a watch kept for a period of time
"While others slept, he kept his lonely vigil."

villain
an evil person; scoundrel
"In a melodrama the audience boos whenever the villain appears."

volume
the quantity, strength, or loudness of sound
"The volume of the music was deafening."

warbler
a bird which sings in trills, runs or quavers; songster
"Though we could not see him, we heard the melodious song of the warbler."

warmth
state of giving off moderate degree of heat; moderate, mild heat
"We could feel the warmth of the sun on our faces."

whistle
to make a clear, shrill cry; said of some birds and animals
"We heard the birds whistle in the trees."

whittle
to reduce, destroy, or get rid of gradually, as if by whittling away with a knife
"We hope to whittle down the cost of the project."

whoosh
to make a quick, hissing or rushing sound of something moving swiftly through the air
"At takeoff, the rocket will whoosh by the airport."

width
distance from side to side; breadth
"We have to measure the width of the shelf to make sure it will fit the space."

wiring
the action of a person or thing that wires
"The electrician did the wiring very quickly."

worsted
a smooth compact yarn from long wool fibers, or the fabric made from the yarn
"These worsted wool trousers will last a long time."

wrapper
that in which something is wrapped; covering; cover
"The gum wrapper was a shiny silver."

yawn
an act of yawning or opening wide
"The movie was boring, and the audience began to yawn."

yearling
an animal one year old or in its second year
"The rancher brought the yearling into the barn."

